README.md, before:

# task-inbox

This is a 'shared task inbox' for small teams. It lets you post tasks via API and triggers webhooks when you resolve them or otherwise change their state. It previews attachments for the tasks. You'd think this would be easy to find on the market / existing OSS.

## Working features

- create tasks programmatically via API
- web UX that works on mobile
- receive webhooks on your server when a task changes status

## Operations

(These are possibly out-of-date links to [operations.md](./operations.md))

- [local tools setup](./operations.md#local-tools-setup)
- [create a user](./operations.md#create-user)
- [create a task schema](./operations.md#task-schema)
- [run local dev server](./operations.md#dev-server)
- [set up inbound webhook auth](./operations.md#inbound-auth)
- [set up outbound webhook auth](./operations.md#outbound-auth)
- [run on helm](./operations.md#run-helm)
- [database migrations](./operations.md#db-migrations)

## Roadmap

- define custom actions for tasks
  - i.e. actions that are not state changes, and may take arguments, possibly automatically from the task metadata, possibly hitting sites other than the sender
  - this matters because it increases the odds I can serve requests quickly on mobile; IMO mobile matters a lot for solopreneurs
- allow mid-course inbound events -- for example, original poster can cancel the task, or a third party vendor can post information
- render task attachments; use templates to control rendering of task types
- process transparency
  - make some parts of tasks visible to end users (start with current status)
  - stats about resolution time, proportion of resolution statuses, and backlog
    - '60% rejected / 40% accepted', for example
    - 'slowest resolution, for all tasks of this type, during business hours, for last 6 months, is 5 hours. median 2 hours'
  - standard web UX to provide this to end-users (vs showing it in your app via api)
  - ETA hooks:
    - tell the system about features so it can generate explainable estimates ('tasks of this type normally take 1 hour, but it's the weekend and you have more than 2 items so expect 1-2 days')
    - register SLOs
- end user manual actions to move the task forward, like answer a question in a form or grant a permission in a related app
- assignments:
  - assign tasks to admins, plug in to on-call rotas
  - mobile notification strategy
  - system for urgency levels (programmable based on various factors: SLA, deadline, user flag, customer type, ML)

This *isn't* a project manager / jira clone sort of thing. It's for tasks that are triggered by a customer action and require fairly boring resolution by the product owner.

## Alternatives

I built it because everything I work on has user-triggered customer service actions, and I was shelling into my prod server to do these. 'Task inbox' feels like a product that is easy to ruin with saas moats and plan levels, but is a natural fit for OSS because of the benefits of standardization.

I shopped around a lot before building this. Without naming names:

- Some tools are good at tasks with a single resolution action, but aren't designed for long-lived tasks with multiple updates over their lifetime
- Many commercial tools make it difficult or require 'enterprise' to hook task updates to my API
- Most tools don't allow custom content (but a few do this w/ js APIs, and at least one in the form of 'iframe plugins')
- Chatops is generally good at this, but 1) hard to get a list of everything not my bag
- Helpdesk / ticketing tools are in theory perfect for this
  - But are very expensive ($10+ per seat), and *much more* expensive if you want to do any customization
  - The OSS ones seem to be on a 'paid app store' model and / or not support API inserts (todo: recheck this)
  - As a user, I dislike being on the receving end of helpdesk threads + have unreasonable dislike for them as a tool
- A shared-source workflow tool that looks amazing but is not designed to wait for user input after a task has started
- An 'approval inbox' tool that looks great but only accepts form triggers, not API
- A generally nice todo list tool but their TOS banned objectionable content. One of my use cases is disputes and content flags
- Moderation tools sort are expensive, AI-heavy (= unclear privacy), not designed for one-person teams, and I'm not sure they support other kinds of service tasks
- A shared team email tool that claimed to support tasks in their API but did not

## Bugs

Are tracked using [git-bug](https://github.com/MichaelMure/git-bug) for now.

Commit message:

vapid, push secrets, first half of push sub working

README.md, after:

# task-inbox

This is a 'shared task inbox' for small teams. It lets you post tasks via API and triggers webhooks when you resolve them or otherwise change their state. It previews attachments for the tasks. You'd think this would be easy to find on the market / existing OSS.

## Working features

- create tasks programmatically via API
- web UX that works on mobile
- receive webhooks on your server when a task changes status

## Operations

(These are possibly out-of-date links to [operations.md](./operations.md))

- [local tools setup](./operations.md#local-tools-setup)
- [create a user](./operations.md#create-user)
- [create a task schema](./operations.md#task-schema)
- [run local dev server](./operations.md#dev-server)
- [set up inbound webhook auth](./operations.md#inbound-auth)
- [set up outbound webhook auth](./operations.md#outbound-auth)
- [run on helm](./operations.md#run-helm)
- [database migrations](./operations.md#db-migrations)

## Roadmap

- web push
  - the [spec](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8030#section-8.1) requires e2e encryption -- we don't do that yet
- define custom actions for tasks
  - i.e. actions that are not state changes, and may take arguments, possibly automatically from the task metadata, possibly hitting sites other than the sender
  - this matters because it increases the odds I can serve requests quickly on mobile; IMO mobile matters a lot for solopreneurs
  - these can be presented as a menu (choose some) or a checklist (do all)
- allow mid-course inbound events -- for example, original poster can cancel the task, or a third party vendor can post information
- render task attachments; use templates to control rendering of task types
- process transparency
  - make some parts of tasks visible to end users (start with current status)
  - stats about resolution time, proportion of resolution statuses, and backlog
    - '60% rejected / 40% accepted', for example
    - 'slowest resolution, for all tasks of this type, during business hours, for last 6 months, is 5 hours. median 2 hours'
  - standard web UX to provide this to end-users (vs showing it in your app via api)
  - ETA hooks:
    - tell the system about features so it can generate explainable estimates ('tasks of this type normally take 1 hour, but it's the weekend and you have more than 2 items so expect 1-2 days')
    - register SLOs
- end user manual actions to move the task forward, like answer a question in a form or grant a permission in a related app
- assignments:
  - assign tasks to admins, plug in to on-call rotas
  - mobile notification strategy
  - system for urgency levels (programmable based on various factors: SLA, deadline, user flag, customer type, ML)

This *isn't* a project manager / jira clone sort of thing. It's for tasks that are triggered by a customer action and require fairly boring resolution by the product owner.

## Alternatives

I built it because everything I work on has user-triggered customer service actions, and I was shelling into my prod server to do these. 'Task inbox' feels like a product that is easy to ruin with saas moats and plan levels, but is a natural fit for OSS because of the benefits of standardization.

I shopped around a lot before building this. Without naming names:

- Some tools are good at tasks with a single resolution action, but aren't designed for long-lived tasks with multiple updates over their lifetime
- Many commercial tools make it difficult or require 'enterprise' to hook task updates to my API
- Most tools don't allow custom content (but a few do this w/ js APIs, and at least one in the form of 'iframe plugins')
- Chatops is generally good at this, but 1) hard to get a list of everything not my bag
- Helpdesk / ticketing tools are in theory perfect for this
  - But are very expensive ($10+ per seat), and *much more* expensive if you want to do any customization
  - The OSS ones seem to be on a 'paid app store' model and / or not support API inserts (todo: recheck this)
  - As a user, I dislike being on the receving end of helpdesk threads + have unreasonable dislike for them as a tool
- A shared-source workflow tool that looks amazing but is not designed to wait for user input after a task has started
- An 'approval inbox' tool that looks great but only accepts form triggers, not API
- A generally nice todo list tool but their TOS banned objectionable content. One of my use cases is disputes and content flags
- Moderation tools sort are expensive, AI-heavy (= unclear privacy), not designed for one-person teams, and I'm not sure they support other kinds of service tasks
- A shared team email tool that claimed to support tasks in their API but did not

## Bugs

Are tracked using [git-bug](https://github.com/MichaelMure/git-bug) for now.
